In today's lecture we're going to learn how to draw the human face.
Now I'm going to break this down into very simple steps for you.
So the first thing we need to understand is that the human head is basically broken up into two shapes.
The first shape is a circle.
So we can go ahead and draw a circle on our paper.
Like so
then the second shape is going to be the job one and the jaw line is basically made out of a square
and a triangle.
The square tapers off a little bit like so and then there's a pointy triangle and to this square just
like so and depending on the person you're drawn to jostling might be different.
So if you're drawing more of a masculine type character you might extend this jaw line further out and
make it more square.
If you draw more of a girl or someone with more feminine facial features you're going to also want to
change the jaw line or maybe keep it like this.
It just depends on what kind of character.
The next thing we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and draw a line right through the middle
of our head vertically and then we're going to drop one horizontally.
You're going to try to find the middle of this line right here.
And generally it tends to be towards the bottom of this circle.
So it's going to be about one fourth of the way down from this circle.
Now that looks a little bit too low is going to bring that up just a little bit more to about there
and then I'll go ahead.
Any race this bottom line is next you're going to want to find the two thirds and the one third spot
between this line right here and this bottom of your chin.
So first there's about one third right there.
And then about another one third up one third to third and three thirds next what we're going to do
is we're going to go ahead and add the Aizen.
So this one right here.
That's the line that your eyes are going to be on now generally your eyes are going to fit on your head
five across.
So you're going to start off of one basically eyeball in the center of your face and then you have another
eyeball right there and then another one right there and then you'll have another one that goes all
the way up to the outer edge of your head.
But we only want these two right here that are in the middle.
So all the other circles we can go ahead and erase those.
We just wanted to draw them to find the placement of our eyes.
So that means we're going to have an eye on this circle here and I'm in this circle right here next
need to go out and draw the shape of the eye.
Now at the beginning of this course we drew an eye as our first project and we didn't go into too much
explanation of how the eye works.
And then so am I going to go into too much explanation.
I'm going to explain how to draw the eye in the next few lectures.
But for now we're just going to go ahead and draw the shape of our eye.
And so we want it to fit within that circle and then we want to copy that over as best we can onto the
other circle only.
We want the shape of the eye to be flipped.
Next we're going to go ahead and draw the nose so the nose is going to be down here at this next line
that we created or we can even come down a little bit further depending on how we want our face to look
if we want to have a very long big nose.
We would come down a little bit further from that line if we wanted it to be average we'd stay at that
line.
And if we wanted them to have a very small short nose we would come up just a little bit.
But in this case we're going to make it about an average nose.
So we're going to go ahead and start to draw in the shape of the nose and don't worry if you don't know
how to draw the nose because just like the i in later lectures I'm going to teach you how to draw the
nose.
For now we'll just go ahead and drop it in and try to copy what I'm doing as best as possible.
Now a good way to make sure that your nose is a good size is you can draw a line comes straight down
from that corner the inside corner of your eye on both eyes like so.
And that's about the average size of a nose.
So use as a guide so if you want a bigger nose make it bigger than these two lines.
And if you want it to be smaller than the average nose to make it smaller than these two lines next.
Let's go ahead and add in the lips so lips generally are going to be on average straight down from the
middle of the eye and that's going to give you the width of where your lips should be.
So we can go ahead and add in our lips on this line right here.
Know we're going to go ahead and just draw that in like so
drop the top part of the lip
draw the bottom part of it
then I can continue to work shape till I get it looking the way I want.
And again depending on how big you want the lips to be if you want them to be bigger than average lips
extend them further than this line.
And if you want them to be smaller than make them smaller than these two lines so in this case only
be a little bit smaller.
This is going to be a girl and girls lips tend to be a little bit smaller in with.
All right.
Next what we want to do is we want to add in the years so that years generally are going to be on this
line that your eyes are on.
So the ears are going come a little bit above that.
So and it will extend off the head.
And then it's going to line up with the line for the nose the nose line is about there.
So that's going to be about the bottom of our ears.
And just like everything else if you want your ears to be larger than extended past those two guidelines
if you want them to be smaller make them smaller than those two guidelines.
Next we need to find our hairline.
So depending on what kind of hairline your character has they might be balding.
They might have a widow's peak but generally the average is going to be right about here about two thirds
away from the top of your head if they have a bigger forehead than that can come up even further.
They have a smaller forehead and that can come down even more.
So we're going to go ahead and draw a line across like so and we wanted to be just a little bit curved
and then we're going to come down like this into the sideburns.
So and so that's her basic general hairline.
And then if you had to speak you could go ahead and add in a widow's peak there.
But for this character we're not going to have any type of a widow's peak and then we can go ahead and
sketch in what ever type of hair we want.
So in this case I'm going to make it a girl and I want her hair to kind of swoosh over like so and then
hang down the side of her neck.
All right great.
Now lastly we want to go ahead and add in the neck for a character so I'm going to go ahead and drive
it back in like so and it starts a little bit further in from the size of the head and then it sort
of curves in and then curves back just like so then we also want to go ahead and add in the eyebrows.
So this also depends on the character.
If it's a guy they're probably going to be a lot more bigger and square.
And if it's a girl they're going to be more thin and have a lot more shape to them.
So since this is a girl we're going to bring the eyebrows to about straight up from the corner of the
inside of their eyes starting about there and them are going to bring them over like so just like a
thin square box and then they're going to taper off in the other direction like so much do the same
thing for the other eye.
So starting about there at the same level make this thin box a rectangle type of shape and no taper
off like so now a thing to note is when you're creating your characters the bigger their forehead looks
the younger they're going to look and it with their eyes the bigger their eyes the younger they'll look.
So if you're drawing let's say a baby character you're going to want their eyes to be really big and
you're going to want their forehead to be really big.
Also the smaller the mouth the more young they look.
And so if you're drawing a baby you want them out to be very very small.
Now let's go ahead and start adding detail to our character.
So first off I'm going to start with the eyes so I want to go ahead and add in my pupils.
And then we can go ahead and add in the eyelashes.
And then we're going to go ahead and add in the eyelids so just right on the top of that a thin line
like so soon with this side
you can have a little bit of shadowing underneath this.
I would for that I
next we can go ahead and turn in those eyebrows and smooth them out a bit more.
Go ahead and move on to the nose so the nose is basically already drawn that way we want it.
We just want to add in some more shading there.
So along the bottom edge we want that to be shaded in and maybe a little bit more shape to the nose
here and we can also add a little bit of shadowing along this edge of the nose as it comes down on both
sides of the nose.
Coming from the top of the eye all the way down to this part of the nose and then I get to go ahead
and start to erase away some of these guidelines that we have here.
Now let's go ahead and move on to the lips so the lips are two different planes so the top plane is
facing downwards.
So if our light is coming from the top that means that the top part of lips is going to be getting the
shadow.
So let's go ahead and fill that in with a darker shadow color.
And then we're going to go ahead and do the bottom part of the lips and the bottom part we want to be
really soft so we don't just want to draw a hard edge for that bottom shape.
We only want to add a shadow underneath that.
So we'll just go ahead and add in a darker area underneath the lips right there like so and then we
can go ahead and move on to the shape of the head.
So starting with right here we can go ahead and straighten that out a little bit more and then we can
add a little bit more of a cheekbone in there.
And then let's go ahead and shape out that jaw line further.
So it's going to curve out of this part of the jaw and then start to curve back and towards the chin.
And then we'll go ahead and add a nice chin in there we'll do the same thing on the other side so it's
going to curve more in down here than curve out a little bit more towards the end of our job line then
we can go ahead and work on these years.
Now I don't want to get too much into that ears right now because they get really complicated but in
one of these lectures I'm going to teach you how to drive a year exactly.
Because I know that years can be extremely complicated when you try and draw them.
But for now we're just going to draw in a basic shape for them.
Just we get the idea across their ears right there on her head.
Right.
Perfect next.
Let's go ahead and move on to shading her face.
So first off we're going to have a little bit of a shadow coming from the top part of her hair and right
over here.
And then we're going to add a little bit of shading along this edge of the brow area and see with this
side will be a little bit of a shifting on this edge to make so.
And then we can go ahead and add a little bit of shading and for the cheekbones since that will also
be creating a little bit of a shadow.
And then we want to add a little bit of shadow along the bottom edge of the jaw as it curves underneath.
There's going to be that even a shadow and then down here on the neck we're going to get a little bit
of a cast shadow from that.
So we're going to go ahead and add in that cash that I would just like soome and we can soften that
a little bit more so it's not such a hard edge.
We can also add a little bit of cash coming from the nose.
Like I said perfect.
Next let's go ahead and detail the hair and just a little bit further.
So I'm going to go ahead and draw this around so
the really hair is just the idea of movement.
It's the idea of lines flowing.
And so if you don't do really long broad strokes the hair's not going to look right so you want to make
sure that you're drawing a long broad strokes.
They go for a long distance.
So if I were to go like this it just doesn't work.
We want to make sure that they're long broad strokes and we don't stop them.
Now this takes practice to be able to just draw longer strokes and know exactly where they need to go.
But you'll get the hang of it with practice.
Now we're not going to go into too much detail with the hair but I will do a lecture on how to draw
realistic hair.
But for now this will do wear out.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you'll learn how to draw the front view of the human face.
So just remember first off you want to create a circle for the head.
Once you do that you're going to create the chin shape or the jaw line and then you want to find the
middle of that in both directions horizontally and vertically.
And then you want to find where your five circles are to represent your eyes and then you want to draw
your eyes in on the two middle ones leaving out the one in the very center and then from there you can
use that to guide yourself to find where the nose should be where the mouth should be and your hairline
and then you can go ahead and start adding in all your detail and drawing the whole in in the next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and learn how to draw the human head but from a profile view.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.